We're almost done going through that startup process and I know that this is a lot of new knowledge to digest
but it's important to have an idea of the big picture and of what happens here in general.
So I left when I pointed at this app component which seems to be a somewhat important component in our
Angular app.
Well therefore let's have a look at it
and remember that we are importing it from ./app.component,
so from this file. Now in here what you can see is again a class which we export with that app component
name
we are importing in app module and just as our app module, the app component has a decorator but here
it's not the ngModule decorator but the component decorator which again is imported from Angular,
from the Angular framewore, here from angular/core
and if you're wondering how you can know from which part of Angular you can import what, it's basically
the same set of features all the time, so you will learn it throughout this course, throughout this refresher
of course.
Now we add this decorator to this class for a similar reason as we added @ngModule to this class
in the app module, to provide metadata behind the scenes which allows Angular to treat this code in a
certain way and execute it correctly in our browser so to say because you always have to keep
in mind that we write the code here in a relatively structured and easy-to-read way.
This is not code that will run in the browser but it is code that is transpiled to code that runs in
the browser and therefore, we for example need to add certain metadata as we do with this add component decorator.
The add component decorator takes a Javascript object to configure this component and here we configure
three important parts - the first part is the so-called selector and this is basically your own HTML tag
by which you will be able to use this component in your application and you see, it's app root here. Now
before I talk about the other two parts,
let's for a second check where we actually use app root.
Well maybe we do in our single page, in index.html and indeed, we do,
if you check this file, you see app root being thrown into our body here. Now
Angular scans this document body for us you could say and it scans it for this selector.
Now it does this because in app module we define the app component as a Bootstrap,
so as a root component for the application. It does not scan index.html for any other component we
might create,
we only have one here but we can and will create more components soon.
It only scans it for the selector of app component because this was added to Bootstrap
and yes, you could add multiple components here,
this is advanced though and typically you only have one root component, other components are added differently.
So this is why the selector is important, because of that selector and the selector matching this tag
here, Angular is able to mount a root component in this place, in our HTML file. Now this component
does not just have a selector, it also needs some definition of which HTML code Angular should
actually render when it mounts this component and that is defined in the so-called template of this
component.
Here, we have the template URL key which points at a file, a HTML file which contains the HTML
code for this component
and here, this is this app.component.html code.
If we have a look at this, we see a bunch of normal HTML tags here and this is actually the HTML
code which is responsible for what you're seeing here, a
h1 tag, an image and then an unordered list for example.
Well that is exactly what you can find here,
an h1 tag, an image and an unordered list.
Now it's important to understand that this is not a HTML page which is shipped to the browser and
just rendered like this, instead Angular behind the scenes parses this and creates a couple of Javascript
instructions that render these HTML elements wherever this component gets mounted to the DOM. And you
can check this by going back to your page and inspecting your page source with view page source
here in Chrome. What you will see is that you only have app root in here, you see none of the other HTML
elements which you can see here in your app.component.html code. This is the page, the HTML page we got back
from the server,
so it's not containing all these HTML elements. That changes however if you inspect your DOM,
so the actually rendered DOM, there you can see all this extra content inside of app root.
Here is app root and inside of that, you got that H2 tag and the div with the H1 tag and so on.
So here you can see that is the content that is rendered but not the content that is initially loaded
and the reason for this difference is that Angular is just Javascript that runs on your loaded page
and then it will render all this content, all this template content here dynamically. Now
last but not least, our component also can take some styling
and here we use style URLs which actually holds an array of paths to CSS files that should
be applied to this components template. So any HTML code in there can be styled with regular CSS written
in this app.component.css file.
Here we have no styles but you could add your own one and by default, the styles you set up here only
apply to elements in
this component.
So if we add a h1 style in here and we give this a red color, then all h1 tags in this component
will be red
but if we had another component which also uses h1, there it would not be red because the styles
defined in the components stylesheet are scoped to this component. So that is how the Angular app starts
and how these core features, modules and components work together.
Now that was a lot of talking,
let's now create our own components and dive a bit deeper into how Angular works in its basics.